Add Page for Multi-Currency Support (#594)
actualbudget/docs: docs/budgeting/multi-currency.md

# Multi-Currency

> Actual Budget is currency agnostic and does not support multi-currency.  There are people working on implementing currency support, however it will take time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Actual Budget software is currency agnostic and does not support multi-currency. People are working on implementing currency support, but it will take time.
```

For the current status visit:
https://github.com/tlesicka/actual-budget-multicurrency-todo

> ## Method to implement multi-currency using Rule Templates

Reviewer: We have standarised on _Captialization in Titles_, or _title case_. See https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/title-case for more information.

> Until multi-currency is added to Actual Budget, you can use this method to achive similar results.

Author: fixed spelling error

> Until multi-currency is added to Actual Budget, you can use this method to achieve similar results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until multi-currency is supported natively by Actual Budget, you can use the method described in this document to achieve similar results.
```

:::warning

> This uses an **experimental feature**. Which means we’re still working on finishing it. There may be bugs, missing functionality or incomplete documentation, and we may decide to remove the feature in a future release. If you have any feedback, please [open an issue](https://github.com/actualbudget/actual/issues) or post a message in the Discord.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This uses an *experimental feature*, so we’re still working on finishing it. There may be bugs, missing functionality, or incomplete documentation, and we may decide to remove the feature in a future release. If you have any feedback, please [open an issue](https://github.com/actualbudget/actual/issues) or post a message in Discord.
```

Author: I copied this paragraph from the experimental/goal-template.md page, but changed as requested.

:::

## Setup
1. Enable Rule action templating

>    - From the Settings->Show advanced settings->Experimental features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In the sidebar, click on the *Settings->Show advanced settings->Experimental features*.
```

>    - click "I understand the risks, show experimental features"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click *I understand the risks, show experimental features*.
```

>    - click "Rule action templating"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click on _Rule action templating_.
```

2. Create Foreign Currency Account

>    - (optional) After creating a new account for the foreign currency, either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - As an optional step, you can create a new account for the foreign currency, either:
```

>      - Add a note to the account ```#currency:XXX``` where XXX is the currency code (i.e. EUR, USD, AUD, etc)

Author: EUR is a currency type and is acceptable

>      - Add a note to the account ```#currency:XXX``` where XXX is the currency code (i.e. EUR, USD, AUD, etc)

Reviewer: Make this clear if the currency code needs to be an official code according to ISO 4217 / ISO 6616-1 alpha two or if any text strings, including currency symbols, can be used.

Author: I changed to: where XXX is the 3-letter currency code as defined by ISO 4217.  It could also be 3-letter crypto (BTC, ETH, etc), but since we don't plan to support that in the first version of multi-currency I left that out.

     - Name the account with the currency code in parens (i.e. ```Australian Cash (AUD)```)

     ![Account Name and Notes](/static/img/multi-currency/account-name-and-note.png)

     Neither is required, but naming the account this way or creating a note will allow a smooth transition when multi-currency is enabled.

3. Create Rules

>    You will need to create two separated rules for each foreign currency account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You will need to create two separate rules for each foreign currency account.
```

   **Rule 1:**

   ![Rule 1](/static/img/multi-currency/rule-1.png)

>    - From the Rules page select "Create new rule"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - From the Rules page, click on the *Create new rule* button in the bottom right.
```

>    - From the Rule Modal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In the Rule Modal edit popup.
```

>    - Select "Post"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In *Stage of rule* select  **Post**.
```

>    - Edit Conditions (If "All" of these conditions match)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - *Conditions* must be set to **if ```All``` of these conditions match**.
```

>      - "Account" "is" then select the foreign currency account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ```Account``` **is**, and select the foreign currency account.
```

>      - "notes" "is not" ```nothing```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ```notes``` **is not** set to *nothing*
```

>      - "notes" "does not contain" ```FX rate:```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ```notes``` **does not contain**  *FX rate:*
```

>    - Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Under *Then apply these actions:*
```

>      - On the left side of the action, just to the right of the -/+ symbols, click the Template toggle buttton. (The action must be of type "set" "notes" or "set" "amount" before the Template toggle button will appear.)

Author: fixed spelling error

>      - On the left side of the action, just to the right of the -/+ symbols, click the Template toggle button. (The action must be of type "set" "notes" or "set" "amount" before the Template toggle button will appear.)

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
     - Click the Template toggle button on the left side of the action, just to the right of the -/+ symbols. The action must be of type *set notes* or *set amount* before the Template toggle button appears.
```

     ![Rule Action Template mode not available](/static/img/multi-currency/rule-action.png)

     ![Rule Action Normal Mode](/static/img/multi-currency/rule-action-normal-instructions.png)

     ![Rule Action Template Mode](/static/img/multi-currency/rule-action-template.png)

>      - "set" "notes" ```{{ fixed (div amount 100) 2 }} XXX (FX rate: FX_RATE) • {{ notes }}```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - *set notes* with this content: **{{ fixed (div amount 100) 2 }} XXX (FX rate: FX_RATE) • {{ notes }}**, where XXX is the currency code.
```

>        - XXX is the currency code (i.e. EUR, USD, AUD, etc)

Author: EUR is a currency type and is acceptable

>        - XXX is the currency code (i.e. EUR, USD, AUD, etc)

Reviewer: Can be removed - see previous suggestion.

       - FX_RATE is the exchange rate (i.e. insert 0.65 for 1 AUD = 0.65 USD)
     - click the + symbol to add a new action line

>      - click the Template toggle buttton for this line

Author: fixed spelling error

>      - "set" "amount" ```{{ fixed (mul amount FX_RATE) 0 }}```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - *set amount* to **{{ fixed (mul amount FX_RATE) 0 }}**.
```

       - FX_RATE is the same as above
   - Click Save

   **Rule 2:**

   ![Rule 2](/static/img/multi-currency/rule-2.png)

   - From the Rules page select "Create new rule"
   - From the Rule Modal
   - Select "Post"
   - Edit Conditions (If "All" of these conditions match)
     - "Account" "is" then select the foreign currency account
     - "notes" "is" ```nothing```
   - Actions

>      - On the left side of the action, just to the right of the -/+ symbols, click the Template toggle buttton

Author: fixed spelling error

     - "set" "notes" ```{{ fixed (div amount 100) 2 }} XXX (FX rate: FX_RATE)```
       - XXX is the same currency code from the first rule
       - FX_RATE is the exchange rate from the first rule
     - click the + symbol to add a new action line

>      - click the Template toggle buttton for this line

Author: fixed spelling error

     - "set" "amount" ```{{ fixed (mul amount FX_RATE) 0 }}```
       - FX_RATE is the same as above
   - Click Save

## Usage

> 1. Create a transaction in the foreign currency account using the foreign currency amount.  (i.e. normal budget currency is USD but account is AUD, then enter the AUD amount in the Payment or Deposit column)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a transaction in the foreign currency account using the foreign currency amount. (i.e., if the normal budget currency is USD but the account is AUD, then enter the AUD amount in the Payment or Deposit column).
```

   ![Pre-Conversion Transaction](/static/img/multi-currency/usage-preconvert.png)

> 2. Go to the Rules page and select one of the two rules for that account.  At the bottom, will be transactions that the rule can be applied to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to the Rules page and select one of the two rules for that account. At the bottom will be transactions to which the rule can be applied.
```

   - If you do not see the transaction(s) that you want to convert, click cancel and check the other rule for that account.

>    - Select the transaction(s) that you would like to convert and click "Apply actions" button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Select the transaction(s) that you would like to convert and click the *Apply actions* button.
```

   - Once the actions have been applied, click cancel since you don't want to change the rule.

![Apply Exchange Rate to Transaction](/static/img/multi-currency/usage-convert.png)

> 3. Go back to the foreign currency account to verify that the transaction was converted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Return to the foreign currency account to verify that the transaction was converted.
```
